# CS292C Homework 5

**Due: May 22th, 11:59pm**


## Instructions

1. Provide your answers in *.v files.
2. Enter a self-grade for each exercise in [self-grading.txt](./self-grading.txt).
3. Submit the following files to Gradescope:
   - `Logic.v`
   - `HW5Extra.v`
   - `self-grading.txt`

### Part 1

- Read the [Logic](https://softwarefoundations.cis.upenn.edu/lf-current/Logic.html) chapter of Software Foundations. 
- Do all exercises except for **classical_axioms**.
- This is one of the most important chapters in order to for you do well in the final project, so make sure you have a solid grasp of the introduced concepts and tactics. If you have any questions, be sure to post your questions in #hw5 on Slack.

### Part 2

In [`HW5Extra.v`](./HW5Extra.v), replace all `Admitted` with your own code. For the part on SAT, simply adapt the previous `andu`, etc. you wrote to return the new `ubool` defined to be `option bool`.

Hints:
1. You're highly encouraged to come up with and prove new lemmas to allow the proofs of the main theorems to go through.
2. If you see an expression of type `bool` or `bool option` in the goal, it is generally a good idea to do a case analysis on it. You can do this by using the `destruct` tactic. E.g., if you see `p x` or `eval v f`, chances are you should do `destruct (p x) eqn:Hp` or `destruct (eval v f) eqn:Heval`. Remembering the case equation using `eqn:...` will be important.
3. If `T1` and `T2` are Coq tactics, then syntax `T1; T2` means "run `T1`, then on each subgoal generated by `T1`, run `T2`". You may find this extremely useful in doing case analysis.